# BAT404_Final_Project



INTRODUCTION

In the Philippines, it is important to have decent work and economic growth because many people are unemployed due to limited hiring by companies with high standards. SDG 8 of the United Nations aims to provide sufficient employment opportunities and promote the country's economic growth, which in turn helps reduce poverty and support families. The Philippines has an estimated population of 113,763,885 as of 2023, which leads to a high number of job vacancies and unemployment. The agriculture and industrial sectors make significant contributions to the country's economy. Their development is crucial in alleviating poverty and addressing economic challenges. 

The Decent Work Country Programme (DWCP) Philippines 2020-24  reflects shared priorities of government, workers and employers in the country, focusing on employment, labor market governance and social protection to build back better.  The ILO provides support to its member States in the development of the DWCP aligned with national, social and economic development priorities of different countries, to help move towards making decent work a reality and to sustain tripartite efforts in ways that are appropriate for them. The ILO contributes to the United Nations Development Assistance Framework (UNDAF) through the outcome on decent and productive employment for sustained, greener growth and other outcomes to support inclusive, sustainable and resilient development in the Philippines. The greatest challenge for the Philippines is to drive the economy to a higher level of growth and job creation. Both real GDP per capital and labor productivity (MDG indicator) barely grew from 1999 to 2002 and it was only in recent years (except during the global financial crisis of 2009) that modest and sustained growth was achieved. The overall goal of Decent Work is to effect positive change in people’s lives at the national and local levels. In the Philippines, the Decent Work agenda is used to express employment aspirations and policy goals.

To achieve decent work and economic growth in the Philippines, it is necessary to strengthen technologies and agricultural practices to ensure sustainable growth and provide employment opportunities for the country's residents. Establishing businesses in various regions of the Philippines can also help address the problem of job mismatch, where individuals work in fields unrelated to their educational background, leading to discomfort and dissatisfaction. The attainment of decent work and economic development in the Philippines requires integrated efforts from the government. Strengthening the labor sector can provide opportunities for the population to access employment.

PROBLEM STATEMENT

The number of unemployed individuals in the Philippines is estimated to be 4.8 percent, which translates to 2.37 million unemployed Filipinos. This is due to the large population in the Philippines and the insufficient number of available jobs, as new technological inventions are replacing human labor, resulting in many vacant positions. Another concern is the state of our economy, as it can be influenced by a recession, which leads to a contraction in business cycles. 

The addition of people leads to many individuals losing their jobs, which causes poverty among the population. The income earned by people is also insufficient due to the high cost of goods in our country, such as rice and food. Because of the lack of employment, some people work in other countries to meet their needs and provide a better future for their families.Therefore, it is better for our government to prioritize our agriculture and products to prevent the rise in prices and to support our farmers in their jobs.

Economic growth as a crucial means for

 expanding the substantive freedoms that people value. These freedoms are strongly associated with improvements in general living standards, such as greater opportunities for people to become healthier, eat better and live longer (Sen, A 1999).

Significance of the project propose

The proposed project in the Philippines will have a big impact on reducing unemployment and fostering economic development. It focuses on technology, agriculture, and business establishment throughout many regions in order to create jobs. This would result in better livelihoods, a decrease in poverty, and higher levels of living. The proposal would improve worker rights and welfare by fortifying the labor sector, which would guarantee fair working conditions. Additionally, by emphasizing sustainable activities, it supports the aims of sustainable development globally and promotes climate resilience and environmental protection. By encouraging cooperation between the government, employees, and employers, the project's inclusive approach promotes more equal results. The project's ability to create jobs, spur economic growth, combat poverty, enhance working conditions, support sustainable development, and promote social equity make it significant overall.
